you can't be a pro without a process and
when it comes to your Google ad
campaigns you can't afford to just take
the spaghetti approach and throw things
against the wall and see what happens
because your money is on the line or
your clients money is on the line in
this video I want to talk about my seven
step Google Ads launch process to give
you the best likelihood to keep more
money in your pocket and to get more
leads and ultimately clients in your
business let's get right into it
[Music]
[Applause]
hey guys Sylvia Perez here from ad
conversion helping you solve your lead
generation problems and grow your
business with digital advertising if
you're new here make sure you click on
that subscribe button and all the links
and resources I mention in this video
you can find in the description box down
below in just two thousand nineteen I
managed well over a million dollars in
Google advertising spend and every
single campaign that I launched for
clients was based off this seven step
process that I'm going to outline in
this video now am i claiming this
process to be the Beyond end-all
absolutely not if you know anything
about me you know I don't believe in big
claims like that this is just again from
my personal experience just like
everything else on this channel is just
sharing what's worked for me as somebody
out there on the front lines doing this
every single day going into Google Ads
interface trying to get my clients more
leads for less cost let's jump right
into it
step number one in launching successful
Google ad campaigns is deciding on your
goals if you're saying things like I
just want more leads and more sales it's
not going to work for you because you
want to know what the reality is the
reality is the number one killer of
successful Google ad campaigns is poor
expectations most of the times we think
our campaigns aren't working when in
fact they are it's just we haven't set
the proper goals to be able to go into
step number two which is to set the
proper budget when it comes to your
goals for your Google ad campaigns try
to get very specific try to follow the
the format I want to achieve outcome by
timeframe so I want to achieve 30 leads
in one month I want to achieve X by Y
don't just say things like more leads
and more sales because it's gonna make
it impossible for you to create a real
plan of attack to really be able to
understand the targets you have to hit
and whether or not these campaigns are
actually successful or not because how
do you know if you won the game if you
don't even know the game you're playing
step number two is to calculate your
budget now this builds off step one
every one of these steps build off each
other so that's why you want to make
sure you do them in this order now that
you have your goal you got very specific
you said I want to acquire let's say 30
leads in one month so you know you need
one lead per day for example now that
you have that goal in mind now it's time
for you to take that goal and to
calculate the budget you need
to realistically hit that goal that you
set in step one I actually created a
video on this on how to calculate your
daily ad budget and you can go ahead and
click on this video and it'll show you
everything I go over three different
methods in terms of calculating your
goal the method that I recommend that
you follow that I mentioned in that
video is method number three which is
the goal calculation method and it
literally builds off step one so now
that you have your goal you can
calculate your budget so go ahead and
click on that video and watch that now
that you have your goal and you have
your starting budget step number three
is to design your campaign structure now
when it comes to designing your campaign
structure there's really three questions
you have to answer number one is who are
you trying to reach what is the age
demographics the income that of the
person that you're trying to reach
number two is what locations are they
are they in are they local or they
national or the international what
specific state zip code cities etc where
do you want your ads to show and the
number three is what service do you want
to promote to these people so you get
very clear on who you're trying to reach
what locations you're trying to show
your ads in and last but not least the
service that you want to promote to
these people I like to personally break
my campaigns out by service location and
device and the reason why is because
that way I can set how much budget I
want to give towards a service specific
service specific location and a specific
device and by breaking it out this way I
can really get granular with my
campaigns and put the best spend towards
the best performing devices locations
and services now that you have your goal
you have your starting budget and you
designed your campaign structure based
on who you're trying to reach the
location you're trying to reach them in
and the service you'd like to promote
now it's time to move on to step four
which is to map out your ad group
structure now it's really important to
note when it comes to Google Ads
relevance is the name of the game and
how you win is with organization so it's
all about relevance Google wants to show
relevant ads to relevant searches they
want when someone goes to Google and
search Nike shoes they see an ad of Nike
shoes and it takes into a page of Nike
shoes the better job you do in terms of
organization and your Google ads account
and grouping your ad groups with
relevant keywords and relevant
that's going to allow you to have a
higher quality score which is going to
allow you to pay less per click and to
rank higher in the Google ads page so
now when it comes to mapping out your ad
groups go ahead and take that keyword of
the service that you'd like to promote
and put into the Google Ads keyword
planner and get a whole bunch of
different ideas in terms of ad groups
you can create based on that service so
let's say you're a dentist in Miami and
with this campaign you just want to
promote your general dentistry practice
and you just want to get people who are
interested in your general dental
services so the search and the service
that you want to show up for is Miami
dentist so you're going to go to the
Google ads Keyword planner and you're
gonna put in their Miami dentists
because that's what you want to promote
with this campaign now when you put that
in there the Google ads Keyword planner
is going to give you a whole bunch of
different ideas and suggestions of ways
people are searching for a Miami dentist
in all these different words and formats
because people look for the same thing
in different ways so now what you want
to do is you want to look through that
list and you want to pull out the
different ways that people search for
your business and create them into ad
groups so for example maybe one ad group
is going to be Miami dentist the second
ad group is going to be Miami
orthodontist and then the third ad group
will be tooth of doctor Miami or just
tooth doctor for example those three ad
groups are all for the same service it's
people looking for a dentist it's just
them saying it in different ways and the
reason why we want to break them out
into their own ad groups is because the
keywords are too different from each
other that if we put them all in one ad
group our ad would get low ad relevance
because the keyword in the ad copy
wouldn't be relevant to the the keywords
in our ad group so just by breaking
those different ones out if they have a
different root word that's pretty good
chance that you want to break it out
into its own ad group and by doing that
you're gonna maintain maximum ad
relevance and again have good
organization in your account for that
service now that you have your ad groups
mapped out it's time to fill those ad
groups with keywords which is step
number five to map out your keywords now
remember this positive keywords give you
visibility those are the things you want
to show up for but negative keywords
will give you focus because the negative
words are gonna block all the irrelevant
impressions and all the irrelevant
searches that you just don't want to
waste your money on now when it comes to
mapping out your keywords there's really
three things you want to focus on number
one you want to make sure that you're
putting relevant keywords into these ad
groups that you just created number two
you want to make sure you're also
putting negative keywords negative
keywords are absolutely critical you can
use something called a negative keyword
list and just apply at the campaign
level but you want to make sure using
your positive keywords your negative
keywords and lastly when it comes to
mapping out your keywords you want to be
using match types match types allow you
to regulate how Google goes about
showing your ads to different searches
they're almost like the guardrails that
protect your keywords and ultimately
your budget so you want to make sure
when it comes to mapping out your
keywords you're putting positive
keywords the ones you want to bid on in
the relevant ad groups that you mapped
out try to also limit it no more than 10
per ad group and also don't overthink
this process once you launch your
campaign you'll get feedback a lot of
these keywords you put in there you
think they're gonna get a lot of
visibility they get no visibility so
it's an iterative process as you move on
with your campaign you can add more
keywords you can take keywords out so
don't allow that to stop you just get
started but put relevant keywords in
your ad group number to make sure you
use negative keywords ideally more
negative keywords and positive keywords
seriously if you like money you like
negative keywords because it protects
you and then third always always always
use match types whatever the match type
is for you make sure you use it so that
way you can put those guardrails on your
keywords and Google doesn't go freaking
crazy showing your ad to anyone step
number six is to create your ads and
extensions when creating your Google ads
copy you only have 30 characters for the
headline and 90 characters for the
description so you don't have a lot of
room to work with but ideally when
you're writing your Google ads copy you
really want to focus on three core
things number one is you want to answer
objections number two is you want to
communicate benefits and number three
you want to provide a call-to-action
when you're writing your ad copy you
really want to make sure that it's
benefit driven that you're answering
objection so for example if fast
shipping is something that people
usually are on the fence about meaning
they want their product fast and it's a
common objection in the sense of if you
can't get your product delivered to me
quick
I'm not going to buy from you if you can
mention in your ad copy that you have
24/7 shipping for example another one
for a local service based business is
24/7 emergencies 24/7 services if you're
a plumber 24/7 same-day availability is
huge so answering objections is critical
in your ad copy in your ad extensions
communicating benefits never talk about
yourself unless you can relate it back
to the searcher and number three is
always always always provide a call to
action you want to tell the visitor what
they have to do next
tell them the next step prime them for
your depending page where you're going
to make them follow up on that that call
to action that you put in your ad and
then as well as when you write your ads
you always want to make sure using the
keywords from your ad group in your ad
copy that way you can maintain that high
ad relevance and now when it comes to ad
extensions
really you just got to use as many as
possible and if you're not familiar ad
extensions make your ads larger it
extends your ad as the name implies and
by adding more information with ad
extensions you're going to make your ads
bigger you're going to provide more
information to the searcher your ads are
going to get clicked on more often your
click-through rates going to go higher
your quality score is going to go higher
only good things will come from it so
it's better to over deliver than under
deliver so by just giving people more
information you can't go wrong versus
just less information so empower your
searchers with the most information
possible and create your ads and create
your extensions step number seven in
launching successful Google ad campaigns
is to set up conversion tracking and
launch let me tell you something you
could have the greatest Google Ads
expert of all time managing your
campaigns you could have the Yoda of
Google Ads managing your campaigns but
I'm telling you the force is not strong
enough to deal with an account that does
not have conversion tracking if you
don't have conversion tracking it
doesn't matter how good the person
managing your account is they could be
the best of all time they won't be able
to do anything until you set up
conversion tracking without conversion
tracking you're not going to know what's
working and you're not going to know
what's not working so you have to set it
up
I know it's techy I know it can be
overwhelming but it is so important that
honestly without this one-step you might
as well not do anything else because
without conversion tracking how are you
gonna put more money towards what works
and less money towards what doesn't
remember if you like money
you like conversion tracking if you
don't have to do it yourself you can go
on a YouTube video you can see tutorials
if you do want to do yourself you can
hire someone to do it for you but it's
got to get done make sure you're
tracking your core core objectives with
your campaign so in this case you're
tracking the leads that call you and
you're tracking the leads that fill out
your form submissions on your page of
your accepting' form submissions so
recap really quickly step number one
decide on your goals step number to
calculate your starting budget step
number three design your campaign
structure step number four map out your
ad groups step number five find your
positive keywords negative keywords and
match types step number six create your
ads and extensions and step number seven
set up conversion tracking and launch
I hope you got tremendous value from
this video if you can give this video a
thumbs up that'll help me out a ton and
if you want to learn more about this
seven step process on how to launch
successful Google ad campaigns as you
can imagine there is a lot of content in
just this one video I actually created
an in-depth training on this process and
you can check that out at ad conversion
dot IO Ford / launch training and on
this training it's over 30 minutes long
I go into detail on each one of these
steps and not only do I talk about my
seven step launch process for launching
successful Google ad campaigns I also
talk about does Google Ads work why
should you consider Google Ads is Google
Ads right for you because there is a
criteria your business needs to meet and
then last but not least I talk about the
traps to avoid when launching your
campaigns that people typically fall
into that caused them to spend money
that they don't want to spend and not
find that success they're looking for so
again you can find that ad conversion
dot IO forward slash launched training
I'll see you in the next video
take care